Let's talk about fixed versus variable rates
when it comes to loans.
A fixed rate stays at the same interest rate
you got the loan at until you pay it all back.
The interest payments are fixed.
And, when it comes to getting loans,
you gotta read the disclosures, right,
and the fine print as variable, meaning rates change,
variable rates can cause a lot of damage
as there's often a teaser rate.
And, a teaser rate means a low rate
initially just to get you interested
and locked in to the loan and sign up for it.
And, this variable rate can go up a heck of a lot
and destroy your credit
and cause you a lot, I don't know, sleepless nights.
It's bad.
And, this is what happened to many people here
in the United States when they got mortgages last decade.
And, once the teaser rates expired in a year or so
after their mortgage, then the variable rates kicked in
which caused the interest rate on their mortgages
to go up a lot.
And, as your mortgage payments increase unexpectedly,
given this awful variable rate, many poor people
here in the United States foreclosed
on their houses in 2008.
It was terrible, it was awful.
I remember our neighbors on the left side of us
and on the right side of us foreclosed.
It was awful.
And, there were some towns in the U.S. in California
that were ghost towns.
It was just terrible, it's awful.
So, since the U.S. economy is about 25%
of the global economy and since 70% of the U.S. economy
is based on consumer spending, the entire world
was pulled into this awful recession in 2008
because of these mortgage issues.
And, so I'm gonna talk more about this
in part three of the course when we talk about investing
in bonds, which means loans from you and me
to governments or companies.
It'll be interesting, you'll love it.
And, a large part of the loans or mortgages
that people have in the United States here
is from investments from foreign governments
like China, for example.
So, we're all connected given globalization.
And, you'll understand why it's important
when it comes to your net worth and investment prospects
when we talk about part three, investing.
Okay, moving on.
When it comes to us getting loans,
I only advise loans for education or our homes.
And, only do a car loan if you really have to.
There might come a time in your life
when you need to get an emergency loan for whatever reason.
And, if you pay all of your bills back on time for years
and your credit rating is awesome as we spoke about earlier,
then you can get an emergency loan from a bank
in the form of what's called a line of credit.
And, Christine, my wife, and I have a line of credit
with our bank, just in case we have to pay bills
without paying high fees, okay?
And, we always wanna pay back on time,
'cause we know that our credit rating will get slaughtered
if we don't do so.
So, what you can do is you can check with your bank
to see if you can increase your line of credit.
And, check your bank account at least once a week
to make sure your balance is high enough.
You can even set up alerts online with your bank
to send you an auto email.
And, a line of credit is what people refer to
as overdraft protection,
Meaning if you write a check for more than you have
in your bank account.
And, a line of credit is a good thing
to set up as a bounced check can cost you
at least 10 bucks if you don't have overdraft protection.
Now, that adds up over time.
Overdraft protection can be free if you ask for it too
with some banks, you gotta ask.
And, just check with your bank and ask them
if you can increase your line of credit
and get overdraft protection.
And do the same thing with your credit card limit
as your credit rating actually improves
if your credit card limit increases
and your charges don't increase,
the amount you use your credit card with.
Just ask them for increases, okay?
A lot of the times they'll say yes.
And, we're gonna discuss mortgages in the next part
of the course as your home might be the best investment
you will ever make as renting for just too many years
can be a horrible waste of money.
And, I rented for far too many years.
Okay, okay.
There's so many hidden fees in finance.
And, if you get a loan, just make sure
to please ask about any additional fees
like a credit search fee or a lawyer fee
or fees to, you know, just to complete the application.
There's all these hidden fees.
It's crazy.
Right, and then after you're done asking questions
about the loan, explain it back to the bank
that you're getting a loan from
and ask them if your explanation of the loan terms
and all the fees is correct or not.
And, when I used to work at a big hedge fund
called Citadel, I can still hear my boss say it.
He would always say to me,
"Chris, if can't explain it, you don't understand it."